oh right hello everyone and welcome to
the project operations weekly I need to
rename this dock because the stock says
project working group huzzah
all right so first first thing that I
thought it would be useful is to resync
on exactly what this group is doing to
make sure that everyone participating in
the group is like on board and aware of
what we have signed up to to contribute
to the ipfs project and and how we want
to be successful and then talk some some
meta things about how to run this
meeting and especially given the
different areas of our of our
responsibilities and the other calls
that we have now arrayed on our schedule
want to make sure that we're using this
time super effectively and then
hopefully go through things like q3
draft okay ours which I know some people
have been iterating on in the past
couple days and then if there are any
tactical I know there are a couple of
things in flight post ipfs camp is I
want to make sure that we're we're
covering any of the kind of actionable
things that are we're working on right
now any other things to add to our
agenda or reorder well maybe we'll come
up with some when we talk about what it
is we do in this meeting and we'll come
up with some new ideas that they see one
talk about and awesome so talking about
what it is this group has kind of signed
up to do it's a little bit of a
conglomeration group that that goes
across a couple of different edges and
the the things that we've talked about
the things we understood is we needed
something that was previously kind of
part of the project working group in q2
but also not really explicitly part of
the project working group was thinking
about things like community and
communications and making sure that the
project is effectively messaging for
itself and so that kind of from a
interfacing with the community and
understanding what the community needs
of us and being a feedback loop with the
community to make sure that we're we're
understanding those problems is like a
core facet of what we think this project
operations group is going to be doing
and so that involves things like
creating blog posts
and making sure that we're we're doing
good release notes making sure that we
are effectively communicating to the
community when there are problems that
we want them to be aware of when we need
their help on something and that we're
interfacing well with like our
collaborators and and just generally
doing a good job communicating if
anything comes up on the internet about
ipfs we want to make sure that we are
aware of it and we were able to respond
to it and respond to it effectively such
that everyone has a very clear idea of
kind of you know what what the project
needs from them and so that's kind of a
big chunk something that blood out of
that was also understanding where the
core implementations of ipfs are going
and making sure that there's kind of a
group that's continuing to think about
that we also have now an hour-long core
implementations kind of engineering sync
that the hour after the project work
sorry the weekly IPS call every week and
so I think will actually will be do it
using that for like tactical engineering
process of like you know do we want to
add this feature to the j/s or ipfs or
both implementations or protocol and so
that is going to be like our tactical
engineering meeting for actually doing
iterations on the core protocol but here
we might use this meeting for kind of
the more meta like hey I need help
writing release notes or you know we
want to do do this change to our release
process that maybe belongs more in like
project operations than actual
implementation iteration and so there's
that trunk and then that also includes
maintenance on many different areas of
the core protocol things that we're not
actively investing in right now but that
we want to continue on in the future
very effectively and so that stuff like
um like either desktop or other UI's or
other features that we have put out in
the past where we're like we want them
to be great we want everyone to be using
them but we don't want to be investing a
whole ton in them right now I guess
thinking back on that collaborations
also includes obviously all of the great
work that that Lydell and G chicken pox
have been doing with browsers those are
very big collaborators that we
absolutely want to be super successful
and then finally there's a chunk of this
that is planning for the future and
into the future from a research
perspective so this is not like a cross
group planning meeting but it does
include a little bit of kind of thinking
proactively about where where we need to
be heading as a project and doing the
pre work from a research perspective to
get that done so there's a lot of
different things in this meeting and we
should find a a structure for it that
will allow us to knock things out across
all of those different buckets pretty
effectively and when necessary split
groups out into their other meetings
kind of like the implementations weekly
there was a hand Michelle do you have a
question or a comment or something well
actually after you finished talking
maybe I should wait a week conceal the
meetings go I'm not super clear on how
the core implementation coordination
interacts with the other meeting and
then also the work that we're doing on
the core I mean all of our separate
meetings are work on the court so but
I'm happy to leave that for a week from
now or two weeks from now once we see
how the meetings fall out yeah my kind
of my idea for this is that this would
be a meeting where folks like Alan and
Stephen would be like pulling kind of us
as members of this project operations
group being like great we need help
iterating on this part of the court
protocol we we need the support from a
communications perspective from a
community support perspective so that we
can be spending our time
you know actually iterating on the core
protocol itself and like making sure
that we have a great process and so
that's what this chunk of the meeting
would be the implementations meeting is
kind of like the jsni PFS working group
meetings were previously run where it's
hitting through different initiatives
that the various of the other task
forces are bringing to that and doing
things like making sure that we have an
agreement upon which direction the
design is heading and that a feature
that maybe the Gateway team really needs
is not going to be a problem for the
package managers group or vice versa
and and then each of the different
weekly calls from all of the different
groups will be focused very specifically
on you know package manager needs or
gateway needs but would go through back
implementation call when they need like
a design review or we need to get like
top-level agreement on the direction the
protocol the core protocol is heading so
when it touches like protocol design and
stuff we'll see
sounds good daveed has a question in the
chat about the focus is this by the IP
based community and for the IP fest
community yes yeah my question given at
this call is on the community calendar
and gets recorded to I guess is just
good to reiterate for group like we
should focus solely on action items
aspects questions that are poor like
because project so this is not micro
collapse a Peters project or programs
FST its operational the other isn't the
Tuesday every other week called that
call like there's one week public one
week internal
so we do have a alternating week meeting
specifically for anything that kind of
the protocol labs contingent of the team
needs and the aim for this meeting is to
be specifically around project
operations for the ipfs project globally
the community open and all of that stuff
I'm talking about things like
collaborations and communications and
such that's super open and then there is
another alternating meeting also on
Tuesdays which is actually a new meeting
which is gonna be kind of a cross task
force update meeting and so where this
one is gonna be really focused on the
stuff that we need to be bringing to the
table like making sure that there is
great community interaction and we're
doing the job communicating and we're
you know supporting folks in the browser
space who need to be doing really
awesome work getting ipfs by default
into browsers and what we're gonna focus
on that in this meeting and then in the
kind of cross working group meeting
it'll be a little bit more like top
level status reports and making sure
that we're unblocking different groups
against each other and kind of more meta
issues or challenges that were
experiencing as part of that and that
one will also be open to everyone
other thoughts or questions or things
that feel less trackabout when I got I'm
sorry which one so there's an
alternating Tuesday's the cross the
cross working group update meeting
alternating Tuesdays it's the super nice
yeah that's the one that sounds more
like the old project meeting to me than
this one yeah I think there's gonna be
we've kind of split it it's like there's
like little bits of both like previously
our project we call had the
communication collaboration stuff and
then it also kind of had like meta
project stuff but we kept having less
and less time for meta project stuff
because we spend all of our time doing
things like actually planning ipfs camp
and other stuff like that and now we've
kind of split them into two separate
meetings we actually have project
operation work and then we have kind of
meta cross group work in a separate
meeting yeah so far thank you so much
for the clarification super happy to
kind of like reset my brain and just
like accept the new calls I guess the
reason why I brought up this question is
in the past there was like some
confusion about like what is internal
what is external like what what should
be communicating outside what truly be
inviting people to join us yeah and so I
think and I definitely going forward we
discuss this a little bit last week but
going forward definitely inviting people
to this call especially folks who want
to and help out from a communication
perspective or things like that people
who are writing blog posts or books or
whatever about IPS there is an IP FS
book that I saw a very early draft of
translated from Chinese into English
which is really awesome so when things
like that happen and we want to bring
people with those sorts of communication
collaboration things bring them to this
meeting and and talking about that
completely reasonable and definitely
something I hope will happen even next
week a trick yet the I think
the first couple of iterations of this
meeting will probably see where the
attention goes and when the important
bits flip to the top are there any
things that we should hit on
specifically every weekend this week
there are there a set of things that we
say okay this meeting is where we check
out on ticket on X Y & Z yeah I think
something's that I'd like to check in on
are kind of what's what's been happening
from kind of a community perspective
whether that's like are they're known
like is there any communication that's
happening in the community that we we
want to be escalating we want to be
making sure we respond to who's kind of
DRI on that if there's no DRI in that we
should figure out how to get a DRI on it
and what is our strategy for responding
to it so it's like you know if there's
you know a post up a new article that we
kind of want a response to or if there's
something happening in the community
that we think that we should be
communicating on about and this which
should be a meeting where we check in on
that I think checking in on a kind of
release process is also a useful thing
to do here I know there's been a lot of
movement on that in the past week so I'd
love to check in on on that as well I
think looks like Steven and Raul have
been chatting back and forth I have not
finished the entire github thread but it
sounds really exciting looking forward
to hearing the approach I think when
there are updates or things that need to
happen from a research or maintenance
perspective I would I want this to be a
forum where we like we at least have a
line item where we're like is there any
anything from kind of an update
perspective like either an update on
research that we want all to be
reviewing and giving feedback on of like
you know here is like our litter we're
being informed in how are we
communicating that and how are we
disseminating it out to the rest of the
community to get us feedback on it or if
there's any like maintenance issues that
we kind of need to help escalate and get
prioritized across other groups even
though this is not you know if they're
maintenance things but they're important
and we need to make sure that we're
doing a good job supporting our users
with that and so those are kind of like
I kind of imagine like a checklist of
each of those things being like what is
our update from communications what is
our updates from implications does that
sound reasonable
my my unmute button ended up right where
my hotkey to lock my screen was that
that sounds really great having having
that set of things in the template for
this meeting will probably help it to
one make sure we hit those those boxes
every time and to that we don't you know
me and or all around because I think
with the amount of things that we have
it will be keeping this meeting at least
making sure that we hit those high
priority items be challenged there
always be something coming up especially
for inviting guests true and we'll also
have a we kind of have a hard stop to
this meeting so that we can all go too
quickly and so if we have other things
to talk about we're not going to have a
good time - yeah cool on on that note
let's kind of consider the what we do in
this call and how we kind of think we're
gonna run it going forward and I'll make
sure that the template for next week
has those line items so we can jump
through them and the other things on my
list word q3 draft okay ours and the
thing from kind of a communication
standpoint was post ipfs can't follow up
I think that's the thing to add would be
if if there are any updates on release
process side or things that we should be
kind of if there should become an action
item from a communications perspective
to be helping communicate out there
release process which Hank I I
definitely put myself on the hook last
week for continuing to help with
disseminating a new release process
alright um alright do we want to take a
pass first through draft ok ours
I started last week before disappeared
into the woods to kind of kr ice the set
of things that were in the q3 Team
document but I did not start moving them
over into the okay our sheet at all so
it'd be great if the people that are
working on those relevant bits did it
passed and I'm not sure they did it Matt
I think probably not quite yet but let's
use this opportunity
project operations and and so kind of
our our early look is here in terms of a
quality release schedule and we have
some metrics here around a release
policy and two releases for the quarter
which two releases per implementation
yeah instead a bit much for one quarter
with all the other things especially I
don't think we have people working on J
yes right now really maybe one of the
goals that we talked about and so I just
threw that number out there that's how
you start throw numbers and then we can
adjust it up or down and see how it goes
but that actually came out of a specific
discussion around cadence releases not
about the designing a release as much as
creating a release schemes we're
releasing on a regular schedule as a
result of the output of some of the
release management stuff that Steve in a
real role or time to be pinned yeah
they're tiny bit that let's say we about
the number of releases but I clearly see
we are scheduled to partner but like
there's always like something else
happening in the quarter so yeah I think
that if we get the new release flow
review the merge soon we will have
stages for release and and I measuring
that if we are following those stages if
we're getting the right feedback at each
stage and if we are discovering bugs and
like fixing them before releasing I
think that will be an isometric and
they're not forcing us to just push the
releases off something about this need
to be workshopped but I guess maybe Alan
and Steven if you guys want to kind of
help continue iterating on this from a
whatever whatever you expect the release
process to be looking like like I agree
with duties point that like going
through the stages having a release that
go is helpfully through the stages that
we design in a release process like
maybe this is just a healthy release or
something like that and I know that
we've also talked about making sure that
we don't put out releases on
we go through this healthy release
process and so we don't other than like
patch fixes or anything like that and so
continuing along those lines I agree
that we shouldn't be counting ourselves
on number of releases but on the the
quality of release we put out and just
to respond to Michelle's point really
quickly
um folks like the web browsers group do
need new releases of JSI PFS in order to
be hitting our goal of very successfully
getting broad browser adoption and so we
will be continuing to put out yesin i
press releases and the core protocols it
just made different but take based on
like the number of new features being
added because a lot of people need go ID
have those features for package managers
and stuff like that cool I'm aware that
we're almost we're a little short on
time a link to the release process
thread yes Steven could you take a pass
that dropping that in the dock thank you
alright let's just continue on to the
next one collaboration systematizing
prioritized DJ seeing as the the time is
running short do we wanna maybe just
have an action item for each one of the
maybe put the dris next to these and
have them do that this pass
hitting all these okay arson in less
than five minutes soon that's gonna be
you and me dietrich doesn't know
contained and i kind of like the gri
growing forward to this area
yeah we can I can take put my name down
for now and then I'll be at the desktop
and later this we can even talk about
okay and then video research all right
reasonable folks feel confident in being
able to flush these out over the next
couple of days and we can kind of check
in a sink in the stock and try and move
to the spreadsheet by end of week sound
reasonable
cool I see nods and thumbs huzzah ivona
bah I will stop sharing this so I can
refine the notes alright draft okay ours
in this dock you will iterate alright
follow it post ipfs camp I know that
daveed has a blog in progress
Thank You de'vide and are you blocked on
anything or what do we need in order to
get that out kind of early right now we
just need to kind of like agree and I
can't to do that without also saying
like these are our favorites and like
like we want to like tell the community
that there are some that are even more
attentively exciting but we don't know
each other's kind of creators that the
ones that's not good the ones that they
made are not necessarily especially
exciting all them are really good and so
I have a proposal on that for request
for you more with you but other than
that okay I'll take a pass at that first
thing after all of these meetings and
hopefully we can do you mind if I if I
feel 100 percent great on everything
can I just merge it for you absolutely
sounds good um collecting community
posts I know that a number of these have
already started happening who kind of
wants from a like organization
perspective maybe we can be like sending
them all to the PL News or like on slack
or on IRC or somewhere where folks can
be like indexing on them and helping
retweet them and generally ensure the
rest of the communities aware of them I
think we should also collect them so
that we can make a master blog post of
like here are all of the amazing things
that came out of my PFS stamp or
can can be putting them somewhere so
that others can index on them really
nicely and then I remember we discussed
last time choking in also being excited
about just coordinating the back and
forth on that and so I'm gonna ask him
to come to this meeting next week now
that we have this meeting so that we can
talk about kind of just doing that at
top level according to get even more
people talking about the really cool
stuff they presented during ipfs camp
and make it really accessible to folks
who weren't able to attend tissue in the
camper but that's a good idea yeah so
the remiel by PFF slash camp is becoming
this kind of like source of truth like
this index for everything thank you all
then help like push the tables that like
made it really nice do I go through
photos of the people who created the
content with the titles we are waiting
on back to publish the videos like that
so that's like publisher something we
were just like link it there and then we
can also use the remade to list all the
articles I've got published spotlight be
festive I think it'll be a good thing
that said I still think that we as a
project really need like a better media
in a big page so if you go type in
sarayaku yeah and it has some talks
that's like a long list of like musical
talks like no Iowa at all so like we as
a team as a community produce so much
content that like I think the community
right now needs some help from us on
directing them like directing their
attention so maybe as a project tiny
project for this quarter he's think how
can we have a media page that like we
can only see articles and videos or even
give a path like I you need to be first
watch you see this first you want to
know what's the way this check out what
is happening right yeah
that's a great idea
I'll add that to the to the comms list
of things to do from this great alright
we're not over time is we need to hop
but anything very quickly from the
release process update work any kind of
like asks or blockers or things that
would be useful to for folks to page in
on I think we can have all those
discussions be ours
but there's a lot of things to discuss
like we don't even know what type of
release postures we want or like we
could have a train process we could have
with the car passes which is a really
psycho process and we're looking anxious
cus these trade-offs so it'll be a while
we also decide what the requirements are
in terms of like just deciding to
release Rossum for the next release or
do we also want to River all of our
testing because that's like one of the
key things were missing and one of the
key things I don't think the release
process we just match up the fix
yeah I think it's kind of like start at
both hands and meet in the middle we
definitely want to improve like any kind
of automation like just my minion but I
guess like maybe Alan can speak more to
it like the Jewish process which is
considerably manual with the exception
for the unit test and actually helps not
only communicate to the community like
what is going on what is coming but also
helps us like catch bugs because we get
to run a bunch of other people sex with
into it as it costs it has like time
costs for sure but it has been very good
for a last year long the point is
whether we have to decide what the the
basically the cutoff is for cutting
release because at the moment we have to
maintain two copies of everything let's
get two branches and this will work
maybe for a month or two but after that
we start getting many more complex and
just nothing work I think a technical
point we're out of time thank you all
very much for a great first call and I
will restructure the agenda next time to
make sure we can hit on these things all
real fast and if we realize we need to
well make sure that we have more time
for this meeting because there's a lot
of different things to cover and I want
to make sure we don't continually run up
against the the next meeting alright
thank you guys so much
have a nice rest of your week probably
see you all very shortly